## REMOTE FILE CLIENT/SERVER APPLICATION
## -------------------------------------

### OBJECTIVE:
This client/server application serves to provide a remote file system to the users, enabling them to create and store files remotely, as well as analyze their files. Although in this instance the client and server are being run locally from the same directory, the application is designed with remote access in mind. Users will be given the ability to create a unique account, login, and access their own unique set of directories and files. Directories and files can be viewed and created, and files can be analyzed based on their word counts. The application of the file analysis is primarily academic, providing a total file word count, as well as a breakdown for individual words, allowing users to see how often each word is used and what percentage of the file it comprises, aiding in editing for speaches and papers.

### HOW IT WORKS:

#### AUTHENTICATION:
The application allows users to perform a variety of functions by displaying menu options, looping until manually exited by the user, sending and receiving data back and forth using TCP Sockets. Firstly, the user must be authenticated. The user can either login with an existing username and password, or create a new set of credentials. If logging in with existing credentials, the server will check the provided username and password against a "usernames.txt" file and a "passwords.txt" (security could be improved). If creating a new login, the server will check the provided username against the "usernames.txt" file to ensure there are no duplicate usernames. Once authenticated, users will have access to the functions on the server.

#### FUNCTIONS:
Firstly, users can create directories on the server. This is accomplished with the Linux mkdir command, creating a directory with a name provided by the user. This name, on the server side, is manipulated to be in the format "(username)(directoryName)", so that users can only access their own files and directories, and there is little possibility for overlap. The second option for users is to view the files in one of their directories, by providing the name of the directory. The list of files is created with the Linux ls command, sending the output to a file that is subsequently sent to the client and displayed. The next option for users is to create a file, providing the intended directory and file name. Strings are read in from the user one by one and then printed to the server side file, terminating when specified by the user. Files can then be viewed by users with the showFile function, users providing the directory and filename and the server sends back the contents of the specified file. Finally, users can provide the directory and file name of a file to be analyzed. The server uses vectors to create a list of the unique, delimited words and their counts within the file, printing the stats to a file with the name format "analysis(originalFileName)". This analysis file is then sent back to the user to be displayed.

### HOW TO USE IT:
The server and client are setup within the makefile to both run locally, but can be run manually from any two machines with ./server <PortNumber> and ./client <HostName> <PortNumber>. From there, server must simply be running to handle client interactions. On the client side, the user simply enters various text inputs within the terminal to interact with the server. Menu options are chosen with integer inputs (1, 2, 3, etc...), and users are prompted for various string inputs. Usernames, passwords, directory names, and file names can be whatever the user wishes, as long as they only use valid characters for Linux. If any sort of special characters are neccesary in usernames, directory names, or file names, it is best to escape the characters with a backslash ('\'). When creating files, the input "newline" designates a newline in the file and "endfile" will terminate the fill with a newline character.